So we are now gonna jump
into the A of algorithms.
So we have defined our
first kind of data type.
We are gonna have that.
And so again,
JavaScript doesn't really have arrays in
the sense that we want to have arrays.
So I will treat a bracket like an array,
it will come.
It will have a dot length property.
And just to make it easier,
I won't go full c neckbeard and
require the length to be passed around and
all that.
But we'll just treat it as if it
only has one thing, dot length.
So as we program, we practice,
keeping it a certain size and
using it in a specific way.
I think it's a lot better
to do it that way.
It just is a good way to
practice these algorithms.
All right, so one big thing we're gonna
be doing here is that we're gonna be
visualizing all the problems first we're
gonna be discussing it with circles and
arrows, boxes and arrows and
then we're going to program it.
We're gonna do a lot of data
structures if possible.
It's definitely a core competency.
If you can get really good at this
visualizing creating your problems first
on a whiteboard, and then being able to
translate abstraction into concreteness.
It's going to follow you for
the rest of your life.
It's an extremely good skill to have, and
at this point often I can just think about
it in my head in these terms, and
I can just write out a program without
doing the intermediate step, and
it's a great skill to have, all right?
So first, we're gonna start with search,
because search is by far something
that you do often, right?
I think everybody here has had to find
some sort of value out of some data
structure.
So let's just start with the simplest form
of search which is search on an array.
And even moreso, we're gonna start with
the even simplest version of search,
which is a linear search.
So again, the first thing we
do is we whiteboard this.
So let's go over here, and
do I have space for this?
I think I have space for this, awesome.
So if we have an array that's from 0 to n,
and
we want to find some sort of value, right?
So we have some sort of function called
Search in which takes in an array and
a value v.
And we want to see is this in here.
So the simplest form we can
do is do a linear search.
In other words, we go to 0 and
say x0, are you v?
And if it says hey I'm v,
we're like awesome.
It's at position 0,
else we'll do it again.
X1, hey, are you v?
Where's Mark?
You are, awesome.
Here you go.
Now this may look very familiar because
I bet who in here hasn't used index of?
Wanna guess what index of is
probably doing underneath the hood?
It's just walking linearly
until it finds the thing.
So, we are literally implementing,
if you will, index of.
It's the simplest form
of any sort of search.
Now before we do that, I think,
do I have it as notes right here?
Yeah, what is the Big O
of this type of approach?
So, remember growth is with respect
to input, constants are dropped,
worst case is usually
what we're gonna measure.
So what is the possible
worst case situation?
So that's the first thing you should
probably define in your head.
What's the way that this thing fails?
Well, just like in our first kind
of example, we had E and if E,
the string E that is, right?
Or the character E.
If that's not in our array and
we're searching for it,
we're gonna go from 0 all the way to N and
never find it.
So what does that mean?
If our input goes from say 1 to 2,
we have to search double the space.
From 2 to 4,
we'd search double again that space.
And it keeps growing
equally with the array.
So what type of running time is that?
Say that again?
>> O(N) type.
>> O(N), all right, awesome.
O(N), we say O(N), that's what it
actually looks like when you draw O(N).
What that simply means is
that as your input grows,
so does the time it takes equivalently or
linearly.
So if it grows by 10, you get 10 more
cycles in this loop if you will.
It's the easiest way to look at it.
And so of course I wanted to implement
this because it's very, very simple but
not only is it very, very simple I also
wanted you to get this onto your machine
if you wish to follow along.
So we can execute these
things one at a time.
I created this little library to be able
to just do a bunch of algorithms and
if you want to do them every day,
it actually creates a way for
you to be able to do
them as much as you want.
I made it for you, so it's a proper chill.
There we go.
So here we go, grab this thing,
go to wherever you want to clone it out,
and let's just clone this thing out.
There we go, I'm gonna clone
it onto my machine, awesome.
So I'm gonna open up vim,
I'm gonna go to scripts,
I'm gonna go to day one and
I will get a whole bunch of stuffs,
so long as you executed install and
generate, you should see all these.
A lot of these are gonna
be data structures or
algorithms that we are going
to implement today.
Yes, you do see min heap in here.
There's a joke, it'll be great, but for
now let's start off with linear search.
So we'll open up linear search.
This should be a very simple one I believe
all of us can just kind of program this
on first try which we will hopefully
first try all of our algorithms today.
So here's the signature of course,
which is linear search.
I do like using snake case.
Now I don't know what happened to me,
I always hated snake case.
And I love snake case.
So if you don't like it, sorry.
So there you go.
Our signature of course, is that we
have a haystack, a bunch of numbers and
a needle that we're looking for,
the number we're looking for.
And we're just simply gonna return
out the Boolean if we did or
did not find the number, all right?
So let's just implement that really
quickly, we're gonna do a classic for
loop, right?
And i has to be less than
of course the haystack.
There we go.
And if haystack i equals the needle,
well, guess what?
We can return true, I normally do not
return in the middle of a for loop.
But for algorithms,
I'm totally willing to make concessions
on good programming techniques.
So there we go.
As simple as that.
If we see it, we return true,
if we don't we return false.
The simplest form of search
that we're going to do,
in fact this is the simplest
algorithm we're going to do today.
To test if you've done it correctly,
what we're going to do is we'll run this,
npx jest and then just partially
type in the name of the algorithm.
So npx jest Linear, this should just
run jest with a filter of Linear.
If you've successfully done,
it'll give you a green passing.
You could also just return true
the first time it executes and
false the second time.
And if you can keep state between
the two tests, you will also win.
So there you go,
don't do that actually program.
But there you go.
This is as simple as it gets.
All right, I am assuming everyone
was able to do that, awesome.
I really just wanted to make sure
everyone has that piece of software
on their machine.
So, I figured this was the easiest way
to know that you have it, it should run.
The reason why you don't use yarn test,
is that if you cut out the package and
grep for test, you'll notice
that I put all of them in there.
And the reason why I did that, the reason
why I do it this way, is that if you look
at, you'll now see what Twitch
has currently called this thing.
If you go to your ligma.config,
you'll notice that you specify
all the algorithms you want to generate
and then it generates them all.
There you go.
Pretty straightforward.